episode with dom d'agostino we discuss
how the ketogenic diet can be used to
treat alzheimer's why ketones are a way
better fuel source than glucose why the
military is implementing keto for
soldiers and how an insecure kid came to
be known as the king of keto
hey everybody welcome to health theory
today's guest is dom d'agostino phd he
is a neuroscientist and physiologist
who's pretty much established himself as
the king of keto he's also a researcher
who's not only helped some of the
world's most extraordinary athletes push
their limits but he's also worked with
cutting-edge organizations such as nasa
and the us military to develop protocols
to help ultra elite operators thrive in
some of the most hostile conditions
imaginable not one to just sit on the
sidelines he himself has gone through
some of these protocols including
becoming a full-fledged aquanaut by
spending ten full days under
and um what i want to know is it'd be
pretty easy for you at this point to
just sit back
do some research what drives you to do
things like spending 10 days underwater
well
i've always had an interest in
environmental extremes and pushing the
limits uh you know outside of academia
outside of my kind of normal wheelhouse
to
go out in the field and experiment with
the things that we're doing in the lab
and on rats and mice and in cell culture
see the real world applications when it
comes to implementation i was focused on
how our brain controls our physiology so
that was really the main focus of my phd
work i transitioned into studying why
the brain actually has seizures so the
mechanisms and sort of the molecular
mechanisms why we have seizures under
those conditions and as i moved along in
that research
it became more interesting to me to
develop not only how to predict these
seizures why they occur but to develop
mitigation strategies and i discovered
that the ketogenic diet was used when
drugs fail and uh and that i didn't know
that i thought the ketogenic diet was a
fad diet i thought it was i just
associated it with atkins or diabetic
ketoacidosis
and then i discovered that ketone esters
were being studied by darpa for
warfighter performance enhancement
so
and the military organization i was
dealing with the office of navy research
did not like the ketogenic diet so it
sent me down a path to develop things
that could circumvent
the restrictions of the diet
to elevate blood ketones to confer that
neuroprotective effect you know under
certain conditions where you can rapidly
be in a state of ketosis and then do a
dive or
you know if you have traumatic brain
injury or areas you know situations
where you'd have seizures you could
rapidly implement that
and that's why i started my my career
path why didn't they like the diet too
slow in terms of getting into ketosis uh
it's thought that military personnel at
the time if you put them on a ketogenic
diet it would decrease their performance
their physical and maybe even cognitive
performance and it was very hard to
implement like the military has mres
they have they already have the food
covered
and it all depended on the diet which
was very hard to follow but a ketone
ester or exogenous ketone
supplementation could rapidly induce it
within 30 minutes and then
get your ketone levels up you need
beta-hydroxybutyrate and acetoacetate
and maybe your listeners know about the
ketogenic diet already to a certain
threshold and you need to do that very
quickly before going into emission so
that's sort of the idea is to circumvent
the dietary restriction but also have
tight control so you're using a
metabolite that your body already makes
elevating it to some extent
uh artificially although they're kind of
bio-identical to what we have
and uh you're elevating it to levels
that literally change the
neuropharmacology of your brain like
it's shifting brain energy metabolism
it's shifting the glutamate to gaba
ratio it's shifting you know various
neurotransmitter systems to have an
anti-convulsion effect and it's also
giving your brain a source of energy
that you could probably say is
objectively
uh superior to glucose so just by that's
going to be a pretty controversial
statement so why is it superior to
glucose well i could use the example of
the working perfused heart system where
you literally have a beating heart
outside of the body but you can give it
a variety of fuels and you can look at
hydraulic efficiency in the presence of
glucose glucose and insulin ketones
ketones and insulin and it was
discovered that the hydraulic efficiency
of the heart is enhanced when it's
burning ketones relative to a fuel like
glucose so there were some studies and
they need to be reproduced in brain
cells but studies in the heart suggested
that it was a superior fuel and the
heart and the brain in particular are
very good utilizers of of ketones and
that really fascinated me that there was
this alternative energy substrate that
our body uses under periods of fasting
but the only way to elevate that in the
blood is with prolonged fasting or
starvation uh or this weird you know
ketogenic diet that was very strict and
that was the place i was in a little
over 10 years ago when
you know i was interested in this as a
neuroprotective anti-seizure approach so
how was i going to package it
and pitch it to
the government essentially to fund a
program
to look into this the science was you
couldn't really argue with it from
an anti-seizure point of view it was a
very legitimate anti-seizure
neuro-protective strategy but i just had
the kind of conceivable way
to implement it uh in a practical way
kind of out in the field and that began
my sort of experimenting with the
ketogenic diet and
dozens of different types of
you know ways to induce ketosis over
time the way that you're talking about
it is is actually helping me understand
i feel like i have a pretty robust
understanding of ketogenics but hearing
the way that you're talking about it i'd
never heard the thing about the
efficiency
of the heart the ability uh to create
more atp per molecule of oxygen like
that's really it's another fuel it's the
fourth macronutrient if you will like i
like to call it ketones do you have you
know carbohydrates as a fuel protein of
course for rebuilding and also some
extent fuel uh fat and then fat derived
ketones but now we have ketones that are
in and of itself you know it can be you
know given as a fuel and they are a
metabolic they're a calorie containing
substance that your body can use for
energy we're just at the cusp of
understanding
the real world applications we have this
technology and we have to figure out you
know how to best use it what form is
best what's bioavailable what the
dosages would be what the applications
are the tolerability even the safety of
these things all need to be and that's
why
i'm kind of deep into that research and
but we don't really have any agenda we
just i just want to find out what works
you know
maybe other people have all their eggs
in one basket for a particular
ketone formulation
but we're just trying to figure out you
know we know there are
infinite amount of ketone salts and even
even different types of ketone esters
that can be developed there was a news
sort of circulating around at the time
in tampa that dr mary newport was using
mct oil coconut oil and then later
ketone esters to sort of manage the
alzheimer's symptoms of her husband so i
became interested in using ketogenic
fats you know into the ketogenic diet
and really went down the path of
exploring and understanding exogenous
ketones too let's talk about that so a
lot of times
yeah for sure alzheimer's is becoming
super terrifying someone i know and care
deeply about
has their mother is struggling with
alzheimer's
my
grandmother-in-law passed away from
complications due to alzheimer's so
why does it work
how do you
use it in somebody's life because
they're going to be super resistant to
being compliant especially because they
don't understand what's happening right
so why you making me eat all this stuff
i want to eat a snickers bar the
etiology of alzheimer's is largely
unknown and it's kind of controversial
but i think that lifestyle factors
particularly associated with the gut and
also inflammation so neural inflammation
is almost like an attack on the brain
it was has been described that
alzheimer's disease is type 3 diabetes
and that the brain is insulin resistant
and a hallmark characteristic of people
with alzheimer's disease is
if you do a glucose pet scan they have
hypo
metabolism of the brain and ketones are
a way to help restore brain energy
metabolism in the face of impaired
glucose utilization in the brain the
only sort of the standard of care is the
ketogenic diet because the ketones go
around the glucose transporter to give
energy to the mitochondria the ketones
can go around pyruvate dehydrogenase
complex to actually stimulate the
metabolic pathways to make atp so the
two pathways are distinct enough that if
one gets damaged you can still go the
other way yeah there's glucose
hypometabolism in meaning metabolism
yeah metabolism yeah in patients who
have alzheimer's disease that is known
that you people don't argue that what
what people argue is
uh
what led to the initiation of
alzheimer's disease so glucose
hypometabolism may actually contribute
to
the production
or processing of amyloid plaques and
ultimately towel plaques that form in
the brain over time
the breakdown of these proteins are is a
very energy dependent pathway or process
right so if the brain is kind of starved
of energy it can't undergo normal
proteolytic pathways and enzymatic
pathways that it normally does right so
these the processing of these proteins
tend to accumulate in the brain as we
age our glucose metabolism in the brain
goes down but ketone metabolism does not
go down so glucose is having a problem
getting in it's having a problem being
metabolized through for glucose
oxidation the mitochondria where
ketones readily cross membranes through
different transporters monocarboxylic
acid transporters
and it's it's a fuel that can be more
readily utilized
by neurons and can sort of rescue in the
way
the metabolic activity and helped
restore it to normal function
and when you restore normal metabolic
function you balance out
sort of brain homeostasis is restored
and
the energy of the brain is also
dependent upon making neurotransmitter
systems so you tend to boost up all
these neurotransmitter systems in
addition to accelerating atp production
if you give a metabolic substrate like
ketones which
in brains of of people who have
alzheimer's disease can use readily
whereas glucose they can't everyone with
advanced alzheimer's disease typically
has a glucose hypometabolism with that
in mind i would say that people who do
have advanced alzheimer's disease
probably only a third of them respond in
a robust fashion to a metabolic
intervention like nutritional ketosis
and in the beginning i was thinking that
this would sort of be the end-all be-all
for for uh alzheimer's disease that if
you elevate ketones into the one to two
to three millimolar range it's going to
have a positive effect and it usually
does but the the people who are like
hyper responders to this
are kind of gonna be
at most maybe 20 to 30 percent they're
going to have an objective increase in
uh scores like the mini mental status
test or the clock test or things like
that
and the others just probably won't
respond even though glucose
hypometabolism is a consequence of
alzheimer's disease not everyone will
respond favorably and robustly to a
metabolic intervention
target energy i hate that answer
it's true and so that we have to deal
with it but now i'm going to ask a
really hard question okay so let's say
that your mom tomorrow is diagnosed with
alzheimer's yeah what do you do on a
day-to-day basis where do you put her in
uh
around-the-clock care what what are you
feeding her
if she's refusing it are we like you
know we're tying down the arms and spoon
feeding do we get the an iv drip like
what are we doing
uh well you look at like where they're
starting from and what are their food
choices because
there are some people who just simply
won't change your diet i mean their diet
is part of their quality of life what
would you really do at that moment like
for real
you know your mom's resistant yeah
not going to change your diet
like what other options do we have like
assume the most i would have an
intervention like i would you know bring
the family together and say
we know this about you we know that if
you do this it will produce this outcome
what if it's past that point of like
being able to rationalize with them
though well
i i think implementation now is so much
easier than it was five to ten years ago
you know mct oil exogenous ketone
supplementation ketone esters so
there are tools that are available that
can be tried
one at a time to ease that person into
something and then you can
you know you want to do an assessment of
that person's sort of activity
mental cognitive status before
during and after various
things are added to that protocol and uh
and it's likely that it's not it's going
to be one thing that's even going to be
helpful that's going to be a combination
of things used together
and whether or not that moves the needle
is going to be dependent
on that patient so let's walk through
some of those specific things that we
try i would start you know if they're
willing to make the changes and they
personally believe that this system is
going to work even if it doesn't work i
think it would make it work it would
make it work to some from like placebo
effects uh i believe so yeah yeah and if
they want to implement it
i would go towards a uh a
lower carbohydrate diet would you just
lower carbs are you eliminating carbs
like how low are we talking uh well you
got to look at like what their diet is
right now maybe the first step would
just be elevating their ketones by any
means possible that we know so from my
perspective the easiest way to do it is
to use something like
uh an exogenous ketone formulation that
can elevate
your your ketone levels to one to two to
three millimolar where we know
that amount of energy in the blood will
be supplying the brain with a source of
fuel and then you kind of can sit back
and
see objectively through tests if that
has any effect i'm going to throw out a
few things that i think is um in that
answer but i just want to really put a
fine point on it so like you said we're
going to reduce carbohydrates i'm
assuming we're killing sugar the first
step would be to just give the brain an
alternative form of energy and
reduce glucose and insulin spikes as
much as possible because that can
contribute to insulin resistance cut out
sugar as much as possible or processed
carbohydrates if they're eating 2 300
grams a day you want to bring that down
to
under 100 grams a day
of lower glycemic
carbohydrates essentially vegetables
and and go from there but if you
abruptly take out glucose from the diet
of someone who's
you know drinking lots of sugary drinks
and things like that that may initially
cause even a greater deficit in
cognitive function because your brain is
being fueled off glucose and may take a
while
to
to induce the adaptations associated
with transporting the ketones utilizing
the ketones and switching your brain to
an alternative form of energy
evolutionarily speaking we are hardwired
to use that for fuel but there are
adaptations that happen over time that
optimize the brain and the body's
ability to use that fuel
efficiently so you have to kind of stick
with it and elevate that fuel in the
blood so it will ultimately get to the
brain there's no argument about that and
then
allow that to happen for
at least i say two months and then to
firmly evaluate if this is a valid
therapy all right so sticking on this
line of sort of personal dietary
protocols um i'm obsessed with
trying to live forever and i know that
i'm fighting a very uphill battle at
this point yeah so if you just had to
get me to 120 what does that idealize
protocol for longevity look like to live
as long as possible well
i might go i'm going to go out of my and
say
probably focus
on relationships and your support
network i would actually say yeah that
would probably be one of the most
important if you just look at the blue
line now going back into like what you
understand at the physiological level
why is that so important what's
happening
your relationships will change the
neuropharmacology of your brain it will
change you know your in a way that's
neuroprotective
absolutely i mean just by decreasing
your stress allowing yourself maybe more
creative downtime instead of always
having to be on or in a fight or flight
mode you know
living in a city so i think and some
people may surprise living in the city
what
well we were just came from new york
city maybe last week and
and that if you were to monitor for
example my heart rate variability or my
stress levels that
that would
push my physiology
to a state that is not conducive to
living forever so i think everybody's
everyone's a unique metabolic entity
things are going to work different for
different people and some people thrive
off that some people you know that
releases their dopamine that drive that
fast
life but i think you need to find out
what kind of works for you but most
importantly surround yourself
among people who are supporting you and
i think from an evolutionary perspective
that's going to be really important to
have that because if you're if you don't
have that support system
you're going to probably in a be in a
chronic state of stress
and lowering stress from a psychological
standpoint may be as more or important
than it is from a physiological
standpoint and we know psychologically
we can impact our physiology that's what
he studied you know in grad school the
neural control of autonomic regulation
if your sympathetic system is dominant
then you're going to be in trouble you
know
over time so i would focus on that and
really nailing down nutrition exercise
getting outdoors when a colleague of
mine uh dr susan massino just got a
fellowship at harvard studying basically
nature as a therapy right so actually uh
going back to nature and living in
nature to
to basically uh
restore and enhance our
psychological health uh mental hygiene
if you will so there are things that we
can kind of control
and then there's things outside of our
control so genetics right i don't think
we are
necessarily destined to our genetic uh
you know our genetics in general we know
that for example
beta hydroxybutyrate has an epigenetic
function but by functioning as something
called a histone diacetylase inhibitor
it can actually change the activation of
genes
that when kicked on can confer a a
benefit over time resilience against
stress do you think there's anything
useful that people should be testing um
for in their own genetics to understand
like genomic eating and things like that
is there a viable test yeah that's i'm
not
fully convinced at this point that that
is something that could uh
be leveraged right now
you know
do a genetic testing based on our
23andme data that's what you're talking
about to
do a nutritional prescription
prescription based on that data
so
my wife is for example a pretty good
carb burner so i know genetically i
think she's kind of set up uh to
metabolize utilize and be carbohydrate
tolerant if you will and other people
undoubtedly from various geographical
regions maybe
the native american population for
example
are very carbohydrate intolerant even if
their calories are maintained
their
glycemic response or insulin response to
a given amount of carbohydrates
is much different than someone else who
tolerates carbohydrates well so i think
that's a really important uh
consideration so people really do need
to self-experiment and study and not
just keep eating a particular diet or
particular foods
and feeling uh
fatigue lethargy you know skin rashes
things like that that's a red flag like
i ate
dairy and wheat for so long and had
eczema for and that's an autoimmune
that's your immune system being hyper
activated by something that the body is
perceiving as a foreign substance
and when i transition to
phasing out any kind of grains or even a
lot of dairy protein the eczema
disappeared 10 years ago when i got into
this area and has never occurred and
that's something i dealt with my entire
life and had to go to the dermatologist
for a long time it wasn't like a macro
thing it wasn't a calorie deficit thing
it was
going on to the ketogenic diet
eliminated some foods maybe by elevating
beta-hydroxybutyrate it completely cured
uh what i had was pretty severe eczema
for a long time and it's never come back
over a decade it's really interesting
talk to me about the difference between
macros and how you're sourcing your
macros like where they're actually
coming from why does that matter
quantity will kind of trump quality to
some extent so if you are running
a
calorie deficit of a high carbohydrate
diet that has processed foods that
calorie deficit will produce a lot of
beneficial things you know for a lot of
that people are looking for like weight
loss insulin sensitivity even a lowering
of inflammation could be achieved simply
by calorie restriction
uh
and this is
you know there's different you know
areas of thoughts on this but i'm of the
opinion
that nutritional ketosis but not even
necessarily that just low carbohydrate
diets allow one
to have the discipline necessary
to implement a dietary strategy that
allows for
you to
induce and sustain a calorie deficit for
one thing and even if you're not at a
calorie deficit simply by not spiking
glucose or spiking insulin and by
elevating beta-hydroxybutyrate
that
you know that comes with a whole host of
other advantages so including the
anti-inflammatory effects including
perhaps the autoimmune effects perhaps
the gut microbiome
if the ketogenic diet is well formulated
with soluble probably most importantly
insoluble fiber that can help restore
gut health over time the the foods that
are part of the ketogenic diet
some people will argue you know against
gmos or against you know
grass-fed beef versus corn fed beef and
if you look at the lipid composition of
fatty meats that are from animals that
were grass-fed there is a significant
you know difference in for example
pro-inflammatory fats or much less in
grass-fed meat so i do think that if you
can budget it in to
go with foods uh ketogenic strategy it's
going to be you want to get fatty fish
meat and poultry
to go with grass-fed relative to
maybe industrial farming practices all
right i want to take a really hard right
for a second okay he said that you grew
up watching the movie commando a lot and
then it actually had a big impact on the
trajectory of your career why is that uh
why commando first of all
why not commando uh
so i think every kid i'm just gonna
go back into that 12 13 year old
mentality where you just want to be a
super you want to be larger than life
you know uh
comic book character right when you're
at that age 13 12 13 14 you that's when
a lot of insecurities start to settle in
and i was a pretty insecure kid
i say i was so shy i was paranoid to
uh read and read out loud in school like
i would literally freeze and have like a
sympathetic kind of overload and uh and
later on even when i went to go pursue a
phd
i was petrified of giving an oral
defense of my phd so it was actually
influencing my ability to like sign the
application to do a phd so i think
arnold schwarzenegger and just having
muscles
allowed me to
get to a state where i had power and
control and that led me down a path to
sort of be like my brother who was very
strong at the time and pretty dominant
in football and just as a strength
athlete and i wanted to be like him i
wanted to be like arnold so i immersed
myself into
uh
lifting and
i was a poor student at the time but to
achieve gains in lifting you know i was
reading muscle and fitness and all these
magazines and i realized that to make
progress
in what i wanted to to do which was just
build big muscles i really had to learn
biology and nutrition so towards the end
of high school the last two years i
challenged myself with
an academic
path that really forced me to learn and
i think
the discipline that i learned through
weight training and reading books about
arnold i parlayed that into
my academics and then my grades went
from very poor or mediocre to
pretty good as i
went down the college path and i
continued to train and that gave me a
sense of kind of self-worth
and
you know the bigger i got the more
control i had over my body and i
realized that nutrition is an incredible
tool not only to add muscle and strength
but to change my energy levels and my
physical state and my health
that's really interesting i love that
i want to go back really fast to one
thing that you said about placebos and
how effective they are do they work on
you
so knowing what you know are you able to
get yourself into a certain mindset to
say this is going to work and just
really invest in that
i think as a neuroscientist i would have
to say yes
even when i was visiting my my parents i
had some decaf coffee and i drank it and
i'm like yeah i'm ready to work and i
went back maybe and i realized that oh
this is decaf i was drinking decaf and i
was all you know i'm saying i could only
like start working on this thing i was
not very sometimes there's a lot of
obnoxious paperwork you get in academia
where it's like okay i'll just have a
big cup of coffee and i'll just bang
through through all this so it's like i
woke up i was going to work and i was
like okay let me have my coffee first
and i was like okay i'm ready and i did
it and that was total placebo effect you
know that i needed my coffee to complete
that work and i had decaf so it was
actually pretty nice to know you know i
did all that work on decaf i'm not
immune to the placebo effect as a
scientist my real question then is do
you use it like if i were anytime i go
into something i say to myself this is
going to work i'm going to go all in
because i know that most things don't
work anyway or they certainly don't work
as well as you want but if you're also
fighting against your own mindset that
it's really not going to work so even
though i'm hyper aware of somebody who's
gone pretty deep into psychology in the
brain
i'm very aware of the placebo effect so
in some way it shouldn't work on me but
because i invest so much not in saying
oh placebos are a thing and it's going
to work i don't think about that i just
think this is going to work i totally
believe this i'm going to give myself
over to it i'm going to do everything
perfectly and it's going to have a
massive result and i was just wondering
if you do something similar if you think
that kind of thing can boost something's
efficacy i totally believe that
even if we're if we're hesitant if a
certain system will work if the
ketogenic diet if a supplemental worker
anything if some kind of
technique will work or whatever you have
to be in a hundred percent
or it's not gonna work right it's like
if you have a hesitation if you go up to
a bar and you're dead lifting 700 and
you're you know you're thinking that i
might not i might slip a disc i might
not be able to pull this up then
it's already done like it's not going to
happen so you need to go into
every challenge in life with the
understanding that you you're already
there it's already done like you just
have to go through the motions you just
have to execute
so that should be sort of your mindset
that
you can use the placebo effect
to your advantage so i feel like i
validated a lot of the the benefits of
nutritional ketosis on myself before
they're validated in various animal
model systems like the lowering of
inflammation my joints feeling better uh
eliminating certain things to get rid of
like my eczema the calming effect i
think the ketogenic diet that has my
wife observed that when animals were in
a state of ketosis they were easier to
handle easier to to deal with so it was
her idea why aren't we studying anxiety
behavior so that was something that
i wasn't really personally interested in
studying
but it was an observation sort of as a
side effect that this is happening and i
felt it in myself too and it's something
that we need to study you know in the
context of nutritional ketosis so that
led to a number of some of some of our
most important work i think is looking
at the behavioral effects of being in
ketosis which really wasn't a big
personal interest of mine but is for my
wife and then
that has kind of shot us off in
different directions of things to look
at
super interesting
all right before i ask my last question
tell these guys where they can find you
online uh keto nutrition all one word
dot o-r-g
and on there i have a blog i have a
podcast on there uh there's products on
there we do not have our own products
but there are products on there that i
have tested that are legitimately
products that that can help you
induce and sustain nutritional ketosis
so that's on there but uh it's more an
informational website so keto
nutrition.org
and uh yeah that's like a one-stop kind
of shop website all right perfect my
last question if people are going to
change one thing to have the biggest
positive impact on their health what one
thing should they change
on their health well man i have to go
kind of out of my comfort zone and just
say really relationships like get your
relationships right you could devote
yourself to work where you work yourself
to death right but you have to allocate
creative downtime
uh
you know with your significant other
with your family to really get the most
out of life because otherwise it just
goes by in a flash and that creative
downtime
uh is probably the most important thing
for mental health mental hygiene which
really
uh can i can look at my sleep and my
heart rate variability and see major
changes in that
and even my glucose levels come down
when i remove myself from stress
environments and get out into nature
things so i think that's the most
important thing it's not being in
ketosis it's not intermittent fasting
it's not that so it's it's really
focusing on relationships and and giving
back so being passionate about something
where the outcome is that you are
serving and giving information that can
help other people that's kind of
fulfilling i was a scientist really
delving into mechanistic things but to
work on something where we get a
scientific effect and publish the paper
and i can do that something myself and
then people can read that paper and
implement it and get beneficial effects
from it that's very rewarding and
satisfying to me and i didn't really
have that 10 years ago so i don't know i
probably went way beyond the question
that you just asked but yeah being
passionate about something you're you're
doing and um
and having that something serve other
people i think is
is really important we are very aligned
on that dom thank you so much for coming
thank you so much
all right guys there there's a reason
this man is known as the king of keto
but i'm telling you that he's so much
bigger than that and what he's really
earned a reputation for in the industry
is never being dogmatic he's always
trying to figure out what is true and
never over investing in something and
somebody like that that's always trying
to push the frontiers by just really
looking at what is the data showing us
what are we learning where could we be
wrong and being willing to admit that
they're wrong and change and grow like i
love that so much and somebody that can
go and talk about something you know as
intricate as what's going on inside the
body and then flip it and start talking
about
that you should be connecting and that
there's a whole world that opens up to
you when you recognize fulfillment as
something that should be important to
you as well and being able to do all of
that and to really try to live a true
full human experience is pretty
extraordinary and i think that that's
why he's really become a voice for this
new generation of scientists that are
really pushing to
push the envelope of what we know and
what we understand and what the body is
capable of and pushing the limits and
boundaries but also
recognizing that we're trying to give
back and help people and touch lives and
he spent so much time
just doing that and we were talking
before if this was all just a part of
what he does is curriculum but he does
it on his free time he had to take a
vacation day to come here and do this
and i think it's extraordinary that he's
that moved to help and reach people that
he does that and i think it's really
really extraordinary i highly encourage
you guys to dive into his world support
him in any way that you can he changed
my life this is about eight years ago
when he and peter ratia introduced me to
fat which i had been fat phobic of until
that moment i owe these guys such a debt
of gratitude um so please if there's
anything that you can do
a kind word retweet a tweet whatever it
is that you can help the longest journey
that'd be absolutely extraordinary all
right if you guys haven't already be
sure to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary take care
thank you
fantastic man
hey everyone i hope you loved that
episode and i want to take a quick
second to share about our amazing
friends at butcherbox butcherbox
delivers 100
grass-fed and grass-finished beef
free-range organic chicken and heritage
breed pork straight to your door every
month when it comes to cooking it is
super hard to find high quality meat you
can actually trust and you guys know how
important that is to me because of what
lisa's going through with the microbiome
and i'm telling you right now it matters
where your food comes from it matters
what your food ate it's crazy
and i've really enjoyed butcher box not
only for my burgers but for everything
here at impact house because you can
trust where it comes from and every box
comes with at least 9 to 11 pounds of
meat and that's enough for 24 individual
size meals and they ship for free
everywhere nationwide except alaska and
hawaii you guys just live too far away
we have an amazing offer for everyone if
you want to try butcherbox you're going
to get 20
off your order by using the link in the
description below so guys i'm telling
you give butcher box a try they are
amazing use the link in the description
below enjoy and be legendary thank you
guys so much for watching and being a
part of this community if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe you're
going to get weekly videos on building a
growth mindset cultivating grit and
unlocking your full potential